I am in Weldon Spring, near St Louis, Missouri, USA
and in the 50s and 60s,
this strange, gray, bare hill was not here:
instead there was a uranium processing plant
And the conditions for the workers of that time were shocking compared to today's standards.
It was not as bad as the 40s'
You can find reports from then about workers who scooped uranium ore by hand,
but there are stories of spilled radioactive powder,
overflowing waste wells,
and strange-looking frogs.
And I do not make that up.
When the factory was still open, he was known as "De Schone".
And, yes, it was not.
The factory closed in 1966,
as the most polluted place in the region:
PCBs, mercury, asbestos and radioactive waste.
In the 1980s, the Environmental Protection Agency declared Weldon Spring
a Superfund Site,
which meant that it would finally be cleaned up.
And this is the result: a rubbish dump for nuclear waste of seven stories high,
the permanent landfill
consisting of more than one million cubic meters of toxic waste,
what, hopefully, the local residents will protect for the next thousand years, approximately.
And that would have been almost the entire video.
If you search this place online, most items do not go beyond this.
But.
Then I did a little more research.
And I learned from the existence of Coldwater Creek, a few miles away,
where radioactive waste from the Manhattan Project,
the project that made the first nuclear bombs,
that waste was just dumped there in the 40s,
with permission from the government.
In the end, that waste, decades later, flooded the backyards of people after a flood.
That was in 2015.
Then there is the West Lake Landfill, on the other side of St Louis,
where an underground waste fire is raging,
very close to another storage facility for radioactive waste, for almost seven years.
The risk is apparently small.
No one will be about to find a glowing barrel in his backyard.
But the dangers of radiation are invisible and frightening:
residents are concerned about groups of cancer diagnoses,
about child mortality due to contaminated groundwater.
There are groundwater sources just a mile away.
The state department of health did research
and their results did not reassure anyone.
There are so many factors that play a role
that the facts are confusing and unknown somewhere.
And people are afraid.
This place is a legacy from a period in which the people in charge,
did not know about, or did not care about the risks of radioactive pollution.
But this is not a monument to the solution of their mistakes:
it is a reminder that we are still recovering them,
and that we will have to do that for the next centuries or millennia.